>> Mike North: Iterables are objects
that you can ask for an iterator.
And several of the objects you're used
to working with in the JavaScript world,
they are already iterables.
The name of the function
that you use to retrieve
an iterator from an iterable
is symbol.iterator.
>> Mike North: And Array and
Map already support this.
So I want to kick out, and
start working in Chrome here,
just because symbols are a little hard for
people to wrap their heads around.
It's a simple concept, and
I just wanna have something dynamic,
where we can see the output right away.
But this is what we're gonna
end up getting, right?
Where we have an array,
we grab an iterator off of it, and
as we pull those three items off,
we'll get values, and
then the last time we pull something off,
we'll get an indication that we're done.
We've basically, like, this array
has given us all it has to give.
All right, so here's my console.
So if I've got an array,
>> Mike North: Like this.
So we wanna invoke a function on
this object to get the iterator out,
and we know that we can use dot notation
to access properties on objects
like this, or
we can use bracket notation, right?
We could do this, and
it means exactly the same thing.
So when we have,
does anyone think of reasons, one,
we might want to use bracket notation?
Like when dot notation
might not be possible.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: If you're trying to access
a key that's saved as
a value of a variable.
>> Speaker 3: So
like if I had bar L equals length,
I could go r bracket L bracket.
>> Mike North: Absolutely, absolutely.
So that would be a dynamic property key,
where the name of the property we
wish to ask for is a variable.
Another common example would be something
like this, where we have a dash and
the name of the property, and
that makes this, and that makes it so
we have to use bracket notation to
avoid this looking like arithmetic, or
the subtraction of my-values to variables.
So, there are certain types of values
that we must use bracket notation for,
in order to get stuff out.
So we've got our array here,
and the name of.
If I were to say I'm gonna get the value,
I'll do just what you said.
Let prop equals.
That's the name of our property.
It's a legal property key.
Right, we're talking
about symbols here and
that this, you may have properties
whose keys are symbols.
And if we look at this, the value of
this property, it looks just like that.
So all you need to know is that
when we say Symbol.iterator,
it's almost like the variable name and
the value are the same, right?
That is what makes a symbol a symbol.
Like we don't get to, you can create
new symbols if you want, like this.
So that would be a symbol of hello.
But it's just sort of a very standard.
It's a string like thing, except it's
not really used for dynamic data.
It's for reserved special words,
think of it that way.
So we've got our array, and
we've got our name of our property.
>> Mike North: And
what we've just retrieved is an iterator.
>> Mike North: And you can see that, oops.
>> Mike North: Did I just do this wrong?
>> Mike North: Come on now.
>> Mike North: Yeah, that should be fine.
Frontend masters.
>> Mike North: So that's gonna give us,
this is what makes this iterable.
>> Mike North: Yeah.
Sorry.
I'm crazy.
All right, here it is.
Sorry.
This is me before my first cup of coffee.
It's a function that we have to invoke.
We're not simply interested in
pulling that function off as a value.
We want to invoke the function.
And now we've got our iterator,
which has a next property on it.
That's also a function.
That's what we're getting off of it.
I want to show you that this
is built into JavaScript.
However, we can define our own iterators.
Does anyone have any
questions about symbol?
Or about,
>> Mike North: Is
anyone unclear as to
what I've just done here?
I know I took us on a roundabout path,
but just to recap, here's an array.
>> Mike North: And
we have established that,
all I'm doing is I'm grabbing
a property off of this array.
The name of that property is not like
the property keys we're used to,
where we can use dot notation.
It is a symbol, and
that property happens to be a function.
And I'm evoking that function.
So we would just say the name of this
function that's on this array is
the symbol iterator.
And now, I've got an iterator.
>> Mike North: Okay, so, so
we would say that what we've done here,
is we've stated that arrays are iterable.
And in the typescript world,
you could almost think of
this as an interface, right.
When we say something is iterable, it's
not that it has a special parent class.
It's just that it has
a particular standard structure.
And the standard structure is,
when we invoke this function,
whose name is Symbol.iterator,
we get an iterator out.
And we know exactly what
this iterator looks like.
It has a function on it called next, and
that next returns those
very specific things.
So it is something that we can implement
on our own, as we've done here.
Right, we just created an object
that meets all of those criteria.
And now, what we can do is use
this in a new type of for loop.
It's a for-of loop.
So you've seen, probably, a for-in loop,
which lets you iterate over objects or
arrays, this lets you
iterate over any iterable.
And it uses this concept of
an iterator behind the scenes,
to get from value to value to value.
>> Mike North: So in this case, just
because of how this iterator works, and
because the value inside
that next function there.
It's just using an index, and it's
incrementing each letter one by one, for
basically when you go through the for
loop and print something like this out.
So at this point, you should be thinking,
that seems like a really involved
way of doing something I could have done
with regular functions, and closers.
And even our functional shopping cart
seemed to be a little bit simpler than
this, certainly easier for
fellow developers to read.
But it is important that we be able
to define patterns like this, so
that we can build some cooler
things on top of them.